--- Assignment 2 ---

What does it mean when a function does not return a value? How do you state that in a
program? How can then the function (or more precisely, the procedure) perform anything
useful?

- When a function does not return a value, it means that the function is a procedure. 
  This means that the function does not return a value, but instead performs some action. 
  This is stated in a program by using the keyword 'void' before the function name. 
  The function can perform something useful by performing some action, 
  such as printing to the console, or modifying a global variable.


How did you implement the side effect that is needed to make print_number behave
correctly? 

- I implemented the side effect by using a global variable, COLUMN_COUNT, to keep track of the number of columns printed.
  I then increment the COLUMN_COUNT variable each time a number is printed. 
  When COLUMN_COUNT reaches the value of COLUMNS, I print a newline and reset COLUMN_COUNT to 0.




--- Assignment 3 ---

How did you represent the marking of 'prime' and 'not a prime' in the memory array?

- I used an array of integers, where 1 represents a prime number and 0 represents a non-prime number.


Which are the main steps in the algorithm? How have you implemented these steps?

- The main steps are to create an array of n elements, all set to 1. 
    Then set the first two elements to 0. 
    Then loop through the array and set all non-prime numbers to 0. 
    Finally, print the prime numbers.


What is the largest prime number that you can print within 2 seconds of computation? What
is the largest number you can print within 10 seconds? Is it the same for print_prime.c,
sieves.c, and sieves-heap.c? Why or why not?

- The time complexity of the Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm is O(n log log n).
    This is because the algorithm iterates over each number up to n, and for each prime number, it marks its multiples. 
    The number of operations is approximately proportional to the sum of the series: n/2 + n/3 + n/5 + n/7 + ..., 
    which is n times the sum of the reciprocals of the prime numbers up to n.
    According to the prime number theorem, this sum is approximately log log n, hence the time complexity of O(n log log n).

    The largest prime number it can print in 2 seconds:
    Through testing with Simons computer - about 10^7. 
    Because of this computers hardware.

    This is not the same for print_prime.c, sieves.c, and sieves-heap.c.
    Because of different time complexity.
    print_prime.c has a time complexity of O(n^0.5). (because of the for loop in is_prime)
    sieves.c and sieves-heap.c has a time complexity of O(n log log n). (because of the Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm)
    Thus print_prime is slower than sieves.c and sieves-heap.c.
    
    (The largest prime number print_primes.c can print in 2 seconds: about 10^6.)




--- Assignment 4 ---
* Explain how you get the pointer addresses to the two char arrays (text1 and text2) and
the counter variable (count) in function work().

- The pointer addresses to the two char arrays (text1 and text2) and the counter variable (count)
  are obtained by passing the address of the pointer to the function copycodes. 
  The function copycodes then allocates memory for the list and assigns the address of the 
  allocated memory to the pointer passed to it. The function then copies the ASCII codes of 
  the text into the list and increments the count variable.


* What does it mean to increment a pointer? What is the difference between incrementing the
pointer that points to the ASCII text string, and incrementing the pointer that points to the
integer array? In what way is the assembler code and the C code different?

- Incrementing a pointer means to increase the address the pointer points to by the size of the
  data type the pointer points to. 
  The difference between incrementing the pointer that points to the ASCII text string and 
  incrementing the pointer that points to the integer array is that the pointer that points 
  to the ASCII text string is incremented by 1, while the pointer that points to the integer 
  array is incremented by 4. 

  This is because the size of the data type the pointer that points to the ASCII text string 
  points to is 1 byte, while the size of the data type the pointer that points to the integer 
  array points to is 4 bytes. 
  The assembler code and the C code are different in that the C code uses the ++ operator to 
  increment the pointer, while the assembler code uses the add instruction to increment the pointer.


* What is the difference between incrementing a pointer and incrementing a variable that a
pointer points to? Explain how your code is incrementing the count variable.

- The difference between incrementing a pointer and incrementing a variable that a pointer 
  points to is that incrementing a pointer means to increase the address the pointer points to 
  by the size of the data type the pointer points to, while incrementing a variable that a 
  pointer points to means to increase the value of the variable by 1. 
  The code is incrementing the count variable by incrementing the pointer that points to the 
  integer array. This is done by incrementing the pointer by 1, which increases the value of 
  the count variable by 1.


* Explain a statement in your code where you are dereferencing a pointer. What does this
mean? Explain by comparing with the corresponding assembler code.

- A statement in the code where a pointer is dereferenced is the statement (*list)[i] = (int) text[i]; 
  (line 15 pointers.c)
  This means that the value of the text pointer is accessed and assigned to the list pointer. 
  This is done by using the * operator to access the value of the text pointer and the [] operator 
  to access the value of the list pointer. 
  The corresponding assembler code uses the mov instruction to access the value of the text pointer 
  and the mov instruction to access the value of the list pointer.


* Is your computer using big-endian or little-endian? How did you come to your conclusion?
Is there any benefit of using either of the two alternatives?

- My computer is using little-endian. Googled it. But also:
  This is concluded from the output of the endian_proof function, 
  which shows that the least significant byte is stored at the lowest address. 
  There is no benefit of using either of the two alternatives, as the choice of endianness is 
  arbitrary and does not affect the performance of the computer. 
  However, it is important to be aware of the endianness of the computer when working with 
  data that is stored in a different endianness, as this can lead to errors in the data.




--- Assignment 5 ---
• Consider AM18, AM19, and AF1. Explain why gv ends up with the incremented value, but
m does not.

- gv ends up with the incremented value but m does not because gv is a global variable 
  and its value is changed inside the fun function. m is a local variable in the main function 
  and its value is not changed after the initial assignment.


• Pointer cp is a character pointer that points to a sequence of bytes. What is the size of the
cp pointer itself?

- The size of the pointer cp itself is dependent on the system architecture. On a 32-bit system, 
  it would be 4 bytes, and on a 64-bit system, it would be 8 bytes.


• Explain how a C string is laid out in memory. Why does the character string that cp points
to have to be 9 bytes?

- A C string is laid out in memory as a sequence of characters, followed by a 
  null terminator (\0). The character string that cp points to has to be 9 bytes because 
  it includes 8 characters and a null terminator.


• Which addresses have fun and main? Which sections are they located in? What kind of
memory are they stored in? What is the meaning of the data that these symbols points to?

- fun adress is 0x9D001180, data is 0x27BDFFE8, which is located in the text section of memory
  because it is a function. What the data points to is the adress of the first instruction of the function.
  main adress is 0x9D0011D8, data is 0x27BDFFD0, which is located in the text section of memory
  because it is a function. What the data points to is the adress of the first instruction of the function.


Extra questions (oral examination):
• Which addresses are variables in and gv located at? Which memory sections according to
the PIC32 memory map? Why?

- The address of "gv" is 0xA000000C and address of "in" is 0xA0000008.
  They are located in the data section of memory, which is used for storing global and 
  static variables. The data section is located in RAM, which is used for storing data 
  that is manipulated by the program.


• Variables p and m are not global variables. Where are they allocated? Which memory
section is used for these variables? Why are the address numbers for p and m much larger
than for in and gv?

- The variables p and m are allocated on the stack. The stack section is used for storing 
  local variables and function call information. The address numbers for p and m are much 
  larger than for in and gv because the stack is located at a higher address in memory than 
  the data section.


• At print statement AM5, what is the address of pointer p, what is the value of pointer p, and
what value is pointer p pointing to?

- The adress of pointer p at AM5 is 0xA0003FE8, the data/value of pointer p is 0xA0003FE4.
  The value of the pointer means the adress of the variable it is pointing to.
  This gives adress: A0003FE4, which is the adress of the variable m.
  m, at AM6, has the value 0x00000007, or 0x7.


• At print statement AM7, what is the address of pointer p, what is the value of pointer p, and
what value is pointer p pointing to?

- The adress of pointer p at AM7 is 0xA0003FE8, the data/value of pointer p is 0xA0003FE4.
  The value of the pointer means the adress of the variable it is pointing to.
  This gives adress: A0003FE4, which is the adress of the variable m.
  m, at AM8, has the value 0x00000008, or 0x8. We can see that m has been incremented by 1.

  This happens on line 54: *p = *p + 1;
  The value of *p is the value of the variable p is pointing to, which is m.
  So *p = *p + 1; is the same as m = m + 1;.


• Consider AM14 to AM17. Is the PIC32 processor using big-endian or little-endian? Why?

- The PIC32 processor is using little-endian. This is because the least significant byte 
  of the 32-bit word is stored at the lowest memory address, and the most significant byte 
  is stored at the highest memory address. 

  AM14: 
    cs[0]
    Adress: 0xA0003FEC
    Data: 0xCD
  
  AM15:
    cs[1]
    Adress: 0xA0003FED
    Data: 0xAB

  AM16:
    cs[2]
    Adress: 0xA0003FEE
    Data: 0x34
  
  AM17:
    cs[3]
    Adress: 0xA0003FEF
    Data: 0x12


    cs shows that

  AM14 to AM17 shows that the least significant byte is stored at the lowest memory address,
  and the most significant byte is stored at the highest memory address because the address 
  increases by 1 for each byte, and the data is stored in reverse order.
